+++
date = 2017-05-14T21:47:41-04:00

title = "Ludic Revision: Potential, Play, and Choice"
time_start = 2017-03-17T09:30:00
time_end = 2017-06-17T10:00:00
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
event = "Conference on College Composition and Communication 2017"
event_url = ""
location = "Portland OR"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

project = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/healy.cccc.2017.paper.pdf"
[[url_custom]]
    name = "Bibliography"
    url = "pdf/healy.cccc.2017.bibliography.pdf"
[[url_custom]]
    name = "Activity"
    url = "pdf/healy.cccc.2017.activity.pdf"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++

In examining intersections between creative writing and composition, revision stands out as “a space in which we teach students that they have choices” (Leahy and Dechow) as they “engag[e] in rigorous self-refection while reading and writing” (Jung). By further framing this revision as play, or ludic revision, we can help students envision the potential of their writing. Ludic revision is collaborative play with language, and it allows students to productively fail as they work through rhetorical choices in the revision process. It also frames revision as a productive activity that students move through. It asks that they change language in their drafts while addressing rhetorical needs and concerns, in order to more effectively engage with the audience. Revision is a process that connects audience expectations and authors’ intentions, and by framing revision as play, while not always fun, students are provided the time and space to fail productively with language through the consideration of rhetorical choices. In order to foster ludic revision, I establish “play-days” as low stakes activities within the composition classroom. These allow students to play with published writing and their own drafts as they identify audiences, play with language, and make connections to rhetorical choices. They are asked to see how playing with language, on the sentence and craft level, is a rhetorical choice that addresses audience aesthetics and rhetorical concerns.
