content/project/wpa-dis/wpa-dis-ab.md, before:

+++
date = "2017-05-25T16:26:24-04:00"
draft = false
selected = false
image_preview = "people/lying-person-reading.png"
tags = ["WPA","DIS","bibliography","TA","Teacher-Prep","curriculum"]
title = "Teacher Preperation, Curriculum Design, and TA's"
summary = "Working Bibliography for the Summer WPA DIS"
widget = "projects"

+++
Coxwell-Teague, Deborah, and Ronald F. Lunsford eds. *First-Year Composition: From Theory to Practice*. Parlor Press, Anderson, SC, 2014.

  This edited collection provides theoretical background for a hypothetical first-year composition class. Coxwell-Teague and Lunsford ask the contributers[^1] "what they would do if they taigh semester-long first-year composition course at their schools and if they knew such courses were to be the only colelge-level compositiong course the students would take" (preface viii)? Each chapter is seperated into two halves: theoretical frame and a syllabus. In the first section of each chapter, the contributors offer the rationales for their design of the course, each highly representative of their own interests and their contexts. The second half of the chapter are supplementary materials, each with a syllabus, and many with assignmen sheets. Overall, the collection offers a snapshot of what many scholars in Rhetoric and Composition see as the important features of this class. There are many commonalities among them, where FYC does not focus on grammar, persuasion, or on the "improvement of writing". Overall, the colelction offers an interesting look at what the core teaching practices and focuses of the discipline are, and where they fit within First-Year composition.

Pytlik, Betty P, and Sarah Liggett. *Preparing College Teachers of Writing: Histories, Theories, Programs, Practices*. Oxford UP, Oxford, 2002.

  This edited collection examines issues of curriculum design, teacher preperation, graduate teaching assistants, labor, pedagogy, and practice. It has an extensive list of contributors [^2], and the chapters were organized aroudn the themes histories, theories, programs, and practices. The provided chapters offer a snapshot into program design, preperation, curriculum, education, support, and local contexts for a variety of teaching assistants, adjuncts, faculty, and professors teaching college writing. The chapters tended to reflect the local nature of the program, outside of some that took a winder stance such as Yancey's heurstic for curriculum design. Overall, the chapters tended to get repetitive, with many offering similar types of programs with various levels teacher preperation and support. There were things to be learned in terms of the framing, content, and ongoing programs that teachers of composition need, and how to structure programs and curriculums. This volume, as compared to the others, was light on theory but had lots of on-the-ground types of insights and explorations

Petraglia, Joseph. *Reconceiving Writing: Rethinking Writing Instruction*. Mahwah, NJ, 1995.

  This edited collection rethinks and theorizes what writing is. With this theoretical exploration

[^1]: Chris Anson, Suresh Canagarajah, Douglas Hesse, Asao Inoue, Paula Mathieu, Teresa Redd, Alexander Reid, Jody Shipka, Howard Tinberg, Victor Villanueva, Elizabeth Wardle, Doug Downs, and Kathleen Blake Yancey.
[^2]: Betty P. Pytlik; Stephen Wilhoit; Krsti A. Sandy; Irwin Weiser; Darin Payne and Theresa Enos; Kathleen Blake Yancey; Shirley K Rose and Margaret J. Finders; Judith Goleman; Christine Farris; Rebecca J. Rickly and Susanmarie Harrington; Katrina M. Powell, Peggy O'Neill, Casandra Mach Phillips, and Brian Huot; Katherine K. Gottschalk; Betty Bamberg; Chris Burnam and Rebecca Jackson; Paul Anderson, Todd DeLuca, and Lisa Rosenberger; Christine Hult and Lynn Meeks; Muriel Harris; Sally Barr Ebest; Wanda Martin and Charles Paine; Gita Das Bender; Michael C. Flanigan; Thomas E. Recchio; Barry Thatcher; Donna Qualley; Margaret Lindgren; Sarah Liggett

Commit message:

Activities and Updates
Worked on adding more to the AB for the WPA DIS.

Added an Activities taxonomy - using it to classify different scholarlay activities and intersets together, so classes, administration, workshops, research, etc.

Thinking forward:
- Other taxonomies?
    - Theories
    - Frameworks
    - ?
- What might be the advantage here?

content/project/wpa-dis/wpa-dis-ab.md, after:

+++
date = "2017-05-25T16:26:24-04:00"
draft = false
selected = false
image_preview = "people/lying-person-reading.png"
tags = ["WPA-DIS","WPA","DIS","bibliography","TA","Teacher-Prep","curriculum"]
title = "Teacher Preparation, Curriculum Design, and TA's"
summary = "Working Bibliography for the Summer WPA DIS"
widget = "projects"
activities = ["directed-independent-study","writing-program-administration"]

+++
Coxwell-Teague, Deborah, and Ronald F. Lunsford eds. *First-Year Composition: From Theory to Practice*. Parlor Press, Anderson, SC, 2014.

  This edited collection provides theoretical background for a hypothetical first-year composition class. Coxwell-Teague and Lunsford ask the contributors[^1] "what they would do if they taught semester-long first-year composition course at their schools and if they knew such courses were to be the only college-level composition course the students would take" (preface viii)? Each chapter is separated into two halves: theoretical frame and a syllabus. In the first section of each chapter, the contributors offer the rationales for their design of the course, each highly representative of their own interests and their contexts. The second half of the chapter are supplementary materials, each with a syllabus, and many with assignment sheets. Overall, the collection offers a snapshot of what many scholars in Rhetoric and Composition see as the important features of this class. There are many commonalities among them, where FYC does not focus on grammar, persuasion, or on the "improvement of writing". Overall, the collection offers an interesting look at what the core teaching practices and focuses of the discipline are, and where they fit within First-Year composition.
***
Petraglia, Joseph. *Reconceiving Writing: Rethinking Writing Instruction*. Mahwah, NJ, 1995.

  This edited collection rethinks and theorizes what writing is. With this theoretical exploration
***
Pytlik, Betty P, and Sarah Liggett. *Preparing College Teachers of Writing: Histories, Theories, Programs, Practices*. Oxford UP, Oxford, 2002.

  This edited collection examines issues of curriculum design, teacher preperation, graduate teaching assistants, labor, pedagogy, and practice. It has an extensive list of contributors [^2], and the chapters were organized aroudn the themes histories, theories, programs, and practices. The provided chapters offer a snapshot into program design, preperation, curriculum, education, support, and local contexts for a variety of teaching assistants, adjuncts, faculty, and professors teaching college writing. The chapters tended to reflect the local nature of the program, outside of some that took a winder stance such as Yancey's heurstic for curriculum design. Overall, the chapters tended to get repetitive, with many offering similar types of programs with various levels teacher preperation and support. There were things to be learned in terms of the framing, content, and ongoing programs that teachers of composition need, and how to structure programs and curriculums. This volume, as compared to the others, was light on theory but had lots of on-the-ground types of insights and explorations
***
Strickland, Donna, and Jeanne Gunner. *The Writing Program Interrupted: Making Space for Critical Discourse*. Boyton/Cook, Portsmouth, 2009.

  This edited collection revolves around issues of contributors [^3]

[^1]: Chris Anson; Suresh Canagarajah; Douglas Hesse; Asao Inoue; Paula Mathieu; Teresa Redd; Alexander Reid; Jody Shipka; Howard Tinberg; Victor Villanueva; Elizabeth Wardle and Doug Downs; Kathleen Blake Yancey.
[^2]: Betty P. Pytlik; Stephen Wilhoit; Krsti A. Sandy; Irwin Weiser; Darin Payne and Theresa Enos; Kathleen Blake Yancey; Shirley K Rose and Margaret J. Finders; Judith Goleman; Christine Farris; Rebecca J. Rickly and Susanmarie Harrington; Katrina M. Powell, Peggy O'Neill, Casandra Mach Phillips, and Brian Huot; Katherine K. Gottschalk; Betty Bamberg; Chris Burnam and Rebecca Jackson; Paul Anderson, Todd DeLuca, and Lisa Rosenberger; Christine Hult and Lynn Meeks; Muriel Harris; Sally Barr Ebest; Wanda Martin and Charles Paine; Gita Das Bender; Michael C. Flanigan; Thomas E. Recchio; Barry Thatcher; Donna Qualley; Margaret Lindgren; Sarah Liggett
[^3]: John Trimbur; Donna Strickland and Jeanne Gunner; Jeff Rice; Tom Fox; Laura Bartlett Snyder; Tony Scott; Sidney I. Dobrin; Bruce Horner; William P. Banks and Jonathan Alexander; Jane E. Hindman; Wendy Hesford, Edgar Singleton, and Ivonne M. García; Thomas P. Miller and Jillian Skeffington; Joe Marshall Hardin; Kathryn Valentine; Margaret Shaw, Gerry Winter, and Brian Huot; Lisa Emerson and Rosemary Clerehan; Christopher Burnham and Susanne Green; Suellynn Duffey
