+++
date = "2017-05-25T16:26:24-04:00"
draft = false
selected = false
image_preview = "people/lying-person-reading.png"
tags = ["WPA-DIS","WPA","DIS","bibliography","TA","Teacher-Prep","curriculum"]
title = "Teacher Preparation, Curriculum Design, and TA's"
summary = "Working Bibliography for the Summer WPA DIS"
widget = "projects"
activities = ["directed-independent-study","writing-program-administration"]

+++

### Coxwell-Teague, Deborah, and Ronald F. Lunsford eds. *First-Year Composition: From Theory to Practice*. Parlor Press, Anderson, SC, 2014.

  This edited collection provides theoretical background for a hypothetical first-year composition class. Coxwell-Teague and Lunsford ask the contributors[^1] "what they would do if they taught semester-long first-year composition course at their schools and if they knew such courses were to be the only college-level composition course the students would take" (preface viii)? Each chapter is separated into two halves: theoretical frame and a syllabus. In the first section of each chapter, the contributors offer the rationales for their design of the course, each highly representative of their own interests and their contexts. The second half of the chapter are supplementary materials, each with a syllabus, and many with assignment sheets. Overall, the collection offers a snapshot of what many scholars in Rhetoric and Composition see as the important features of this class. There are many commonalities among them, where FYC does not focus on grammar, persuasion, or on the "improvement of writing". Overall, the collection offers an interesting look at what the core teaching practices and focuses of the discipline are, and where they fit within First-Year composition.

  I found the class designs and syllabi really engaging. It has me actively thinking about both how to design my classes this summer and fall, and also thinking about how we talking about and theorize curriculum design. I find this especially useful in the connections between design and assessment, and how transparent (or not) that connection is.

***
### Petraglia, Joseph. *Reconceiving Writing: Rethinking Writing Instruction*. Mahwah, NJ, 1995.

  This edited collection rethinks and theorizes what writing is.

***
### Pytlik, Betty P, and Sarah Liggett. *Preparing College Teachers of Writing: Histories, Theories, Programs, Practices*. Oxford UP, Oxford, 2002.

  This edited collection examines issues of curriculum design, teacher preparation, graduate teaching assistants, labor, pedagogy, and practice. It has an extensive list of contributors [^2], and the chapters were organized around the themes histories, theories, programs, and practices. The provided chapters offer a snapshot into program design, preparation, curriculum, education, support, and local contexts for a variety of teaching assistants, adjuncts, faculty, and professors teaching college writing. The chapters tended to reflect the local nature of the program, outside of some that took a winder stance such as Yancey's heuristic for curriculum design. Overall, the chapters tended to get repetitive, with many offering similar types of programs with various levels teacher preparation and support. There were things to be learned in terms of the framing, content, and ongoing programs that teachers of composition need, and how to structure programs and curriculums. This volume, as compared to the others, was light on theory but had lots of on-the-ground types of insights and explorations

***
### Restaino, Jessica. *First Semester: Graduate Students, Teaching Writing, and the Challenge of the Middle Ground.* Southern Illinois UP, Carbondale, 2012. eBook.

  In this monograph, Restaino studies the first semester teaching experiences of four first-semester graduate teaching assistants as they navigate the multiple roles of graduate teaching assistants. She uses Hannah Arendt's "ideas about beginnings, about necessity, and about work" to examine the ways in these four student/teachers form their teaching personas, work through difficulties, theorize their classrooms, and situate their work/labor at "Public U." Restaino by presenting the context that the students were presented with: a 3 day orientation, a semester long practicum, an assigned syllabus and schedule, and ongoing mentoring. She also notes the methods and methodologies that she utilized in her study, with an attentive, ethnographic, participant-observer as the primary means of data collection. This included the observation of the four teaching, email interview, the collection of student writing, and the offer for mentoring/support throughout the semester by meeting with the group over drinks, as well as through email. Using Arendt's theories about labor, consumerism, and the human condition, she examines how the four students develop and maintain a sense of agency and identity through meaningful work, rather than falling into the traps of meaningless labor to survive. This analysis offers meaningful explorations where these students were successful, and painful narratives where they weren't. This was especially true with her narrative and analysis of Tess and Nancy, with Tess's issues establishing "authority" and the struggles with Philosophy Phil, and the ways in which Nancy constructed her persona as detached, and doing the teaching on her own terms. While Restaino is careful in her conclusions to not generalize from this particular semester-long, contextual, case study, she does suggest that this sort of localized analysis of graduate students and non-tenured faculty can help understand and adapt education and support programs for these new teachers. Additionally, it offers a different means of theorizing labor/work in composition programs, and can offer WPAs a different means to design and assess their programs.

  I found the book overall intriguing and thought provoking. The detailed narratives and case studies offered a look into a particular set of graduate students and WPA concerns. Given her methodological stance, Restaino raised many questions through her analysis, and offered a potential framework to adapt to local contexts. However, I felt as if there was much that could be further explored throughout the text and in further analysis. This was a very interesting read in thinking about the Strickland and Gunner collection, and with the theorizing of labor and laboring from Asoa Inoue.

***
### Strickland, Donna, and Jeanne Gunner. *The Writing Program Interrupted: Making Space for Critical Discourse*. Boyton/Cook, Portsmouth, 2009.

  This edited collection examines issue surrounding the professionalization of composition and writing studies, especially as experienced by WPAs, and the people that they work with and for. There is a range of contributors[^3], showcasing a variety of experiences and perspectives. There is an attention paid to issues of what counts as work and labor, and the issues that have arisen out of the teaching of composition and the development of writing programs under the administration of WPAs. Additionally, there are calls for continued work in detailing and accounting for the variety of work and labor that occurs within Writing Programs as expressed in their various local contexts. The chapters ranged in their discussions from history, to development of TA and WPA theory, and the real labor implications of the work of WPAs. There was a call for tenure line and tenured WPAs in institutions, for better accounting for teaching and administration as important intellectual work, and for implementing policies, procedures, and mindsets that help to address the labor and staffing inequities that are present in many writing programs. There were examinations of the labor of WPAs, adjuncts, full-time faculty, and GTAs. The most salient chapters dealt with the rhetorics of programs, their local context, and how they can be both theorized and implemented in more just and equitable ways. These chapters were also able to make some detailed analysis of programs, and offer some generalizable insights out of them. However, there were a number of chapters that were either not as strong, or dealt with an issues/exploration that seemed overly contextual, without adding to broader understandings of the labor of WPA work.

  This book, to me, was hit-or-miss. There were some chapters that were exceptionally strong, especially in considering the working conditions, political realities, and labor issues associated with the teaching and administration of writing programs. The concern here for examining the "consolidation of the field of writing program administration under the forces of managerialism, professionalization, and the economic systems of both, with resulting material practices that serve to limit the nature of WPA work, though not its culturally conservative effects" (xiii). Many of the issues expressed here appeared in narratives presented by Restaino, and in the design of classes presented in Coxwell-Teague and Lunsford.

[^1]: Chris Anson; Suresh Canagarajah; Douglas Hesse; Asao Inoue; Paula Mathieu; Teresa Redd; Alexander Reid; Jody Shipka; Howard Tinberg; Victor Villanueva; Elizabeth Wardle and Doug Downs; Kathleen Blake Yancey.
[^2]: Betty P. Pytlik; Stephen Wilhoit; Krsti A. Sandy; Irwin Weiser; Darin Payne and Theresa Enos; Kathleen Blake Yancey; Shirley K Rose and Margaret J. Finders; Judith Goleman; Christine Farris; Rebecca J. Rickly and Susanmarie Harrington; Katrina M. Powell, Peggy O'Neill, Casandra Mach Phillips, and Brian Huot; Katherine K. Gottschalk; Betty Bamberg; Chris Burnam and Rebecca Jackson; Paul Anderson, Todd DeLuca, and Lisa Rosenberger; Christine Hult and Lynn Meeks; Muriel Harris; Sally Barr Ebest; Wanda Martin and Charles Paine; Gita Das Bender; Michael C. Flanigan; Thomas E. Recchio; Barry Thatcher; Donna Qualley; Margaret Lindgren; Sarah Liggett
[^3]: John Trimbur; Donna Strickland and Jeanne Gunner; Jeff Rice; Tom Fox; Laura Bartlett Snyder; Tony Scott; Sidney I. Dobrin; Bruce Horner; William P. Banks and Jonathan Alexander; Jane E. Hindman; Wendy Hesford, Edgar Singleton, and Ivonne M. García; Thomas P. Miller and Jillian Skeffington; Joe Marshall Hardin; Kathryn Valentine; Margaret Shaw, Gerry Winter, and Brian Huot; Lisa Emerson and Rosemary Clerehan; Christopher Burnham and Susanne Green; Suellynn Duffey
