+++
author = "michael"
date = "2017-04-03T22:02:01+00:00"
sharing_disabled = [1]
switch_like_status = [1]
title = "Writing Program Acronyms: Considering Contexts, Systems, and Locales"
type = "page"
weight = 6
+++

David Russel examines the historical development of WAC/WID in modern American universities. Starts with the considerations of composition in universities as a very “American” sort of issue. Connects various waves of development to different “literacy crisis” as new populations of students entered into higher education. These developments roughly paralleled other interests in rhetoric and composition, with WAC/WID developing alongside growth in the study of writing, with emerging PhDs in rhetoric and composition eventually coming in to design and run these programs. The taxonomies discussed by Condon and Ruiz considers the various stages, features, and momentums that WAC programs go through as they develop throughout different university settings. I found their use of the quantum states metaphor useful in understanding the different states and momentum of programs as they develop through the four types of programs that they mention. Each type has a close attention to a type of assessment, reflection, and institutional stance that shifts overtime.

I found both interesting in their historiography of rhetoric and composition through the implementation and administration of WAC programs. I found Russel’s piece and its focus on broad developments useful in illustrating how programs co-developed with rhetoric and composition programs. There is an additional argument here for the usefulness of PhDs that see and can administer these programs effectively and efficiently for the broadest set of students across a range of different institutions. This paired with the taxonomies, and the close attention that Condon and Ruiz paid to their own programs, allowed for different stances and perspectives on the development of WAC programs to emerge. This gave a nuance to how programs develop and why they have become so widespread. I had a difficult time with the sense of inevitability and linear progression that they established in the taxonomies, and while I found the quantum states metaphor useful, it was also limiting. While I understand the reasons, you can look at the current state or you can look at the long-term momentum, I found that it limited scope to categorization and hierarchy of more fully realized WAC programs.

I would have like, from my own standpoint, and ecosystem metaphor for WAC/WID programs and their development. Starting with rhetorical ecologies, and how WAC programs are a response to many different exigencies, most often some “literacy crisis” brought on by the admission of some new group of students. I would propose an ecosystem over an ecology specifically for perspective of evolution and change overtime. Ecosystems can change gradually, or quickly based on inputs. It also allows for the examining of systems in place both as they are now, and to look at what they were and what they may be. It would work to move beyond some of the linear progression and hierarchy concerns that I have with the taxonomy models, and work to integrate some of what Russel finds in his historiographic approach to the field and the implementation of WAC programs. It also allows for the placement of “caretakers,” and the notion of restoration of systems. It also positions multiple people, departments, and aims as working within the same broad system, with interrelated parts that don’t always seem to meet in cohesive ways. I think this could be a productive way to think about WAC/WID, their development, their evolution, and for potential future directions. It also allows for a view that can better examine when systems break down for where to potentially intervene. But most importantly, it moves us beyond the binary of static “where it is” or “momentum” as our two views of these programs.

* * *

## Reflection

### What is the artifact within the larger context of the course/experience?

This SRR asked us to look at two different accounts of the rise of WAC/WID programs in universities. These broadly paralleled many of the same internal and external factors that led to the development of composition as a field of study. It also situates the development of different WAC/WID programs in response to many of the same exigencies that led to basic writing, ePortfolios, testing, and other concerns of composition and composition programs. Within the course it also deals with issues directed towards implementation and realizing the intentions of composition within universities and communities. These are ways of actually doing the work that research indicates may be useful.

### So what, or why was this a meaningful learning experience?

I choose this SRR because I liked my own exploration of the issues within the field, and I see myself starting to make connections between different issues in composition. At this point in the course, a few weeks on from this discussion, I see this SRR as starting to manifest where I may see myself working and fitting within the broader discipline. I also see myself starting to push against WAC/WID/WEC in ways that are potentially productive. Some of this is due to the metaphor that Condon and Ruiz used, but I also see it as getting to some of the idyllic promises of these programs, and the need for developing locally contextual writing programs and faculty. It helps me to see how and where I may fit, outside of my own justifications for my interests. I am starting to see where I may fit into this broader thing called Rhetoric and Composition.

### Now what, or what do I need to know or do for the learning that lies ahead?

This lets me know that I need to continue looking at local contexts, and how they are important. To start really thinking about how composition is not realized in some utopia, but that it responds to, and adapts based on local needs, constraints, and affordances. It also has me thinking about more institutional and curricular ways in which we can approach issues an  implement changes. As I was reading the work for assessment this week, I couldn&#8217;t help but wonder about WAC/WID, local contexts, and the development of curriculum and programs. How do these different pieces express themselves in an English department and composition program? I also know that I will need to continue to make these connections. It also lets me know that I have a lot to learn.
