+++
author = "michael"
date = "2017-04-15T17:21:47+00:00"
sharing_disabled = [1]
switch_like_status = [1]
title = "Intellectual Whack-a-Mole"
type = "page"

+++

In looking back through my exploration of [homebrewing] (/project/eportfolios/comptheory/triptych#hombrewing), [a SpaceX webcast] (/project/eportfolios/comptheory//triptych#spacex), and [Malea Powell’s CCCCs address] (/project/eportfolios/comptheory/triptych#powell), I see trends coalesce around the social nature of composing and composition. The different composing practices and compositions of these three artifacts are all situated in-between multiple voices, knowledges, places, spaces, and practices. Composition, from looking at these three pieces of the triptych, assembles into a communal inscription by a person or persons onto the world, with some specific and rhetorical aim to the process. All three illustrate the aspects of ecologies in which compositions, writers, audiences, process, and literacies circulate within and between each other.

The first thing that I noticed was how highly contextual composition is. Examining the homebrewing community provided a range of different and situated composing practices as potential examples—troubleshooting a brew, sharing knowledge, sharing brewing stories, developing a recipe, or brewing itself—that are all related to the same basic activity and have a similar knowledge foundation, but require potentially different responses. The SpaceX hosted webcast was also highly contextual, with the focus on the composition being the events of the launch, the customer, an experimental rocket landing, and the return to flight after an accident investigation. Malea Powell’s address was situated within the context of CCCCs, but also with an audience of educators and composition professionals. The talk was also situated within the context of St. Louis and the stories related to place, people, and erasure that were assembled in the presentation.

Secondly, composition is used to express and share the knowledge and expertise of a community of practice. In the homebrew beer community, composition practices are used to disseminate and share best practices, scientific insights, personal experiences, and in the assemblage of ingredients for recipes. Composition in used to communicate between members and initiates of the community on how to brew beer and the effects of different approaches, where the assemblage of ingredients, methods, time, people, and temperature, all have effects on the end-product. The SpaceX hosted webcast had as a purpose the sharing of knowledge and expertise through a variety of professionals, data, and images to share what was events during the launch coverage, and was presented in a way to be interesting to experts and to novices. And lastly, Malea Powell’s address was an assemblage of voices and important issues that she felt needed to be presented and addressed. She drew on a plurality of voices to showcase a depth of knowledge in an issue for a knowledgeable community.

Third, composition and composing can be used to learn, explore, and express interest or membership within different communities. It can also be used to exclude others from that community. I found this aspect most apparent in Malea Powell’s talk where compositions can be a means through which hegemonic power expresses itself. It can be used to welcome and initiate communication between people and communities, but it can also be used as a means to erase, as with the Cahokia. Composition and composing are epistemological, and their use by different communities can give voice and impose silence. These practices were less obvious, as they weren’t explicitly explored, in my other two artifacts. However, the SpaceX webcast has the issue of welcoming people in, they needed to have the technological access and knowledge about the launch to find and engage with the community. The webcast itself is set up with multiple voices, angles, illustrations, and perspectives to serve as both a learning and advertising tool. Lastly, the homebrewing community uses composition to experiment and communicate. It can be interesting, as I’m doing right now, to play around with the constituent ingredients for a beer recipe to see what happens. This sense of play with the constituent piece of a composition appeared to be an important aspect of the community. Using other compositions, like community forums and websites, allows for a means of entry for interested people, though they can also be exclusionary in the expertise, vocabulary, and knowledge needed to approach.

Fourth, that composition is a process, with many voices and influences behind a composer, that may or may not be visible or expressed. All three of the artifacts and situations that I examined were explicitly communal, multi-authored, and multi-voiced. While not something that I particularly sought out, I was surprised at how overtly communal composition and composing can be. Malea Powell demonstrated this in her talk by assembling and negotiating between multiple voices and perspectives. It was also visually clear within the SpaceX webcast that there were multiple people, events, and compositions assembled together, with a variety of purposes, in the one webcast screen. And the homebrewing community is one that seems to show their collective interest in most things that they do. Recipes and experiments are composed collectively, with people drawing clearly on prior knowledge and precedent. There is also the critique and evaluation within the community of beer that has been brewed, with discussions on how best to adapt or develop new approaches within the field.

Fifth, that composition is rhetorical. This was an assumption of mine coming into the project, but I think it is worth exploring. Each of these artifacts had a clear rhetorical nature. All of the communities and compositions responded to some exigence, had an audience in mind, appealed to that audience, and hoped to influence them in some way. Malea Powell was very clearly addressing the audience at CCCCs and within the field. She wanted to bring attention to invisible issues of colonialism and to offer a space for different epistemologies. For SpaceX, there was the occasion of a rocket launch, but it was also their first flight back after an accident in September. This webcast was also composed for multiple audience that may or may not have similar reasons for watching, and they did their best to address those. The homebrewing community responds to and composes within the rhetorical situation of the hobby, with a variety of responses by and for different audiences based on the situation.

Finally, composition is ecological in that it responds to, circulates, and evolves based on highly situated and interwoven processes, audiences, materials, and composers. Composing and composition exist within a variety of forces and situations, and it operates within those bounds. Compositions also evolve as they respond to and adapt for different situations. There also appears to be an intersection between organic responses and directed responses in how the ecology shapes composition and how compositions in turn shape future responses.

In many ways, I found that this project extended or illuminated different aspects of composition and composition theory for me. However, as I was working through it, and the reflection especially, I kept feeling like I was playing Whack-A-Mole. I would have an idea, or a connection, and I would run towards it only to have another one pop up that I wanted to respond to. It was frustrating at times because I didn’t feel that I was able to dwell in one place or in one thought very long, and that I would shuffle off to the next. There are two things that this project primarily helped to illustrate to me, first, that composition and composing practices are socially situated and that they operate in rhetorical ecologies. These were both connections that I feel I have worked with before, but seeing them play out in a variety of contexts and practices here was really interesting. The process of examining composition and composing through these lenses offered a new, combined perspective that highlighted connections and centered social ecologies within composing for me.
